I like to start by telling you an experience of a brother at Patterson Bethel.
He had recently lost a loved one, a parent, in fact, in a horrible accident, and he had
desperately needed to talk with someone about what he was going through and how he was
feeling.
He was in a word, unraveling, and he needed help.
So he called a close friend of his at Wal-Kill, Bethel, but unfortunately the brother said
that at that time he was unable to talk.
Have you ever found yourself in a similar situation that is feeling like you're drowning and
in need of assistance?
The psalmist did.
Please read with me his words in the 94th Psalm and note his question.
It's Psalm 94, verse 16, the psalmist asked in part, who will rise up for me?
Who will rise up for me?
He goes on to answer his own question in verses 17 and 19.
He says, if Jehovah had not been my helper, I would have soon perished.
When anxieties overwhelmed me, you, Jehovah, you comforted and soothed me.
Well when you and I send up such heartfelt prayers to Jehovah, how does he rise up for us?
And how can we imitate him by rising up in behalf of others?
Let's go back in time and consider an example.
During the days of Israel's judges, their lived a wealthy landowner named Boaz.
In obedience to Jehovah's law, he made sure that in his fields, cleanings were left for
the afflicted and poor.
One day, he observes a woman working in his fields that he does not recognize.
And soon he learns that she is the foreigner, Ruth, whom up to this point he has only heard
about.
Well, what does Boaz do?
Notice how he rolls up for her at Ruth chapter 2, verse 8.
Ruth chapter 2, starting with verse 8, Boaz said to Ruth, listen, my daughter, do not
go away to glean in another field.
And do not go anywhere else, stay close by my young women.
Keep your eyes on the field that they harvest and go with them.
I have commanded the young men not to touch you.
When you are thirsty, go to the water jars and drink from what the young men have drawn.
Clearly, Boaz protected Ruth.
He brought her under his loving care.
We see him looking out for, shielding, defending the one in need.
And when Ruth, according to verse 10, questions his motive for helping her, a foreigner.
Notice a second way he rolls up in her behalf.
Ruth chapter 2, verse 11, Boaz answered her, a full report was made to me of all you have
done for your mother-in-law after the death of your husband and how you left your father
and your mother and the land of your relatives to go to a people whom you had not known before.
May Jehovah reward you for what you have done, and may there be a perfect wage for you
from Jehovah, the God of Israel, under whose wings you have come to seek refuge.
To this she said, let me find favor in your eyes, my Lord, because you have comforted
me and spoken reassuringly to your servant, although I am not even one of your servants.
When Boaz spoke reassuringly to Ruth, the footnote says that he spoke to her heart, how so.
His words were not just general expressions of praise.
They were specific to Ruth into her personal circumstances.
He reassured Ruth that Jehovah loved her for all the sacrifices she had made and she
would not be forgotten.
Those comforting, encouraging words of Boaz convinced Ruth that everything was going to be okay,
but Boaz did more than offer reassuring words.
Notice the third way he rose up.
Ruth chapter 4, verse 9.
By taking swift action, Boaz ensured that the inheritance of his deceased relative,
Alemilek, would remain in their family, chapter 4, verse 9.
Boaz said to the elders and all the people,
you are witnesses today that I am buying from Naomi, all that, excuse me, all that belonged
to Alemilek and all that belonged to Killian and Maulin.
I am also requiring Ruth the Moabite, it's the wife of Maulin as a wife, for what reason?
To restore the name of the dead man to his inheritance.
So that the name of the dead man will not be cut off from among his brothers and from
the city gate of his home.
You are witnesses today, Jehovah used Boaz to rise up for Ruth and Naomi in three main
ways.
One, he protected those under his care.
Secondly, he spoke reassuringly to them, and third, he took action.
Seeing the need, it rose up to meet it.
He protected, he reassured, he took action.
Well, how about you and me?
Should we not do the same for those in need of assistance?
And what can result when we do?
Well, before you answer that, let's go back to our opening experience.
You see the very next morning, upon arriving at his work assignment, our distressed brother
received a phone call from the Patterson lobby.
It was the brother, the friend from Wallkill.
He had gotten up early that morning, had driven over an hour from the Wallkill complex to
reach the Patterson complex by 8 a.m.
He had arranged for a private conference room, and he was there waiting for that distressed
friend, so he could find out how can I help.
That was 22 years ago, but I can tell you now, I have never forgotten what that friend
did for me when he rose up for me on that day.
By means of the action that he took, I felt reassured, I felt protected, I felt loved.
So the question for you 24 students, in fact, the question for all of us in our hearing
audience is this, what will you do to rise up for someone in need?
We have every confidence that each and every one of you will answer that call when it comes
saying, here I am, I will rise up for you, how can I help?